Hi, so I wanted to talk to you today about
the, about modal dialogs and about
the dialog position package that was recently published
on the NPM website. Registry, and you can see it there.
Uhm, so we often,
uhm, as accessibility consultants,
we often come across problems with,
with keyboard, uhm, accessibility in relation
to, in relation to modal dialogues, uhm,
either things like the focus not being moved into a modal dialog,
uhm, when it's,
when it's opened, or that focus is not restricted to
the modal dialog. or indeed when we close the dialog,
uhm, focus is not returned to the triggering
element. Uhm, and so,
uh, in the past,
or, you know, in the recent past,
we would have had to rely on quite a lot of ARIA and quite
a lot of Javascript, uhm,
to Good. So here's the APG,
uhm, version that uses 330 lines
to implement a modal dialog,
and 330 lines of JavaScript,
uhm, and so,
obviously, it's quite a challenge, and it's quite a challenge to
try to get things right, and it's quite a challenge to make things, to
make the modal dialog accessible,
uhm, but fortunately, it's certainly now,
we have the native,
eh, eh, eh, native element,
HTML, HTML, native, eh, eh, eh, eh, eh, eh,
eh, native element. And that, erm, does a lot of the
heavy lifting for us,
so it's, it's very, it's very good at managing
the focus of the keyboard.
In the way that we want,
and indeed, it is now widely supported.
So it's supported, erm, it says on,
on this website, on this website. And I use,
it's supported by around, erm, I have 6% of,
erm, I have 6% of browsers globally.
Which is pretty good. Erm, the one
thing that the term people might be asking now is how,
how to, Why you position, erm,
how I push the native dialog,
erm, on the page. Erm, it is,
erm, it uses the CSS fixed,
erm, fixed.
Fixed, eh, Position.
Er, and so, erm, I went to this research, erm,
and came up with quite a,
Erm, simple, erm, CSS style sheet.
Here we are, it's only 50 yards long.
Erm, and that allows you to position,
based on a data attribute.
Erm, so a data-position attribute.
Erm, these are the sporty values that you expect,
so top, bottom, left, right. And those results,
in full height and full with modal modals.
And then you can also use things like top,
hyphen, left, top, hyphen, right.
Bottom, hyphen, left, bottom,
hyphen, right. As well.
So, there you go.
Umm, this is,
erm, and here's a basic sort of demo that I put together,
er, that uses this style sheet.
As you can see, as you move,
as you click on the buttons, and
it moves the modal dialog around the screen by
setting this data out to you. So,
really, that's, hopefully, that's really
handy, and would be a really useful tool for people going websites, and want
to, make sure they're accessible.